---
title: Getting Setup
category: '7 Day Challenge'
order: 1
---

There are a few things that we use during the course that we ask you to download/set up for both the practice challenges and the course in general.

## Browser: Chrome

We'll be using Chrome to preview and test our websites, as it has the best developer tools. Download the latest version of Google [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/features.html?brand=CHBD&amp;gclid=Cj0KEQjwyN7JBRCZn7LKgb3ki8kBEiQAaLEsqsFu3ctUicvTCQW604YrV3Hi7ARsHYaHcSsjf9qChdQaAvB48P8HAQ&amp;dclid=CPLY5dOerdQCFQiIaAodWWUCBQ)

If you for some reason can't download Chrome, we recommend Firefox as the next best option.

## Online Code Editor: CodePen

Next you will need a CodePen account. CodePen is a great site for testing code when you don't want to set up a folder and files for tiny snippets of code. Go to [http://codepen.io/](http://codepen.io/) and click on the Sign Up button on the top right corner. Scroll to the Free Plan and Sign Up.

We'll be using codepen for the first 6 days of the course to learn new coding concepts or play with ideas straight from the browser.

## Code Editor: Atom

Go to [https://atom.io/]() download the latest version.

Atom is the code editor that we are using to write code and build your website projects. You can write code in any text editor (even simple applications like text-edit) but code editors like Atom have additional functionality that makes web development easier, like code hints and color coding the syntax.

If you don't want to publish your final project live, you won't need Atom so you can ignore this step. <!--Watch this video for tips on how to setup and customise Atom to suit you.&nbsp;--><!--&lt;&lt;&lt;ADD VIDEO&gt;&gt;&gt;-->

## **Course Outline**

**Day 1 -** We'll look at how to start coding in HTML and the basic sytax of html elements, including headings, paragraphs and links.&nbsp;

**Day 2** - We'll learn how to use CSS to style those elements, changing the fonts, colors, and more&nbsp;

**Day 3** - We'll learn how to create columns and grids, to make beautiful layouts

**Day 4** - We'll learn how to embed youtube videos or google maps into your site responsively.&nbsp;

**Day 5** - We'll look at optimising images for the web

Day 6 - We'll build a custom splash page (mini website page) together from start to finish&nbsp;

Day 7 - We'll upload it to a free hosting profiler and connect it to a custom domain name (if you have one)&nbsp;

**Excited yet? &nbsp;**

Each day we'll share a new video and a dedicated post in the FB community for you to ask questions, share your insights and experiences and towards the second half of the week share what you have built\!&nbsp;

&nbsp;